---
title: Changing Code
order: 3
---

## changing code

Let's make a small change to the code and reload the transaction processor.

> It's much easier to have Docker installed locally so you can edit code in your preferred text editor.  If you are running in Play with Docker - you can use the `Editor` button to edit code but it might be easier to find a partner or watch the main screen.

This demonstrates how to edit code in development and check your changes against the running validator.

Open the `code/xo/src/tp/index.js` file in your text editor.  

> **TIP** you will need to open your text editor to be able to edit this file.

At the bottom of the file you will notice the section that starts the transaction processor as follows.

```javascript
// start the transactionProcessor - this will initiate and register the
// transaction processor with the validator
transactionProcessor.start()
```

Let's add a `console.log()` line just before the `transactionProcessor.start()` that will print a message just before the transaction processor attempts to connect to the validator:

**BEFORE**

```js
// start the transactionProcessor - this will initiate and register the
// transaction processor with the validator
transactionProcessor.start()
```

**AFTER**

```js
// start the transactionProcessor - this will initiate and register the
// transaction processor with the validator
console.log(`OUR MESSAGE: connecting to validator: ${args.validator}`)
transactionProcessor.start()
```

This will print a message to the console before connecting to the validator.

## restarting transaction processor

We have changed the code for our transaction processor, but the old version is still running.

We will need to restart the transaction processor for our changes to be applied.

First - let's kill the xo transaction processor container:

```bash
docker rm -f sawtooth-xo-tp
```

Then restart it with the following command:

```bash
docker-compose up -d xo-tp
```

And check the logs of the xo transaction processor:

```bash
docker logs sawtooth-xo-tp
```

Great! We are now able to edit code on our laptop and quickly re-run the transaction processor to see the changes we made running against the validator.

## recap

We just did the following things:

 * booted a sawtooth validator using docker-compose
 * started the xo transaction processor inside a container
 * stopped the xo transaction processor
 * changed some code on our laptop using a text editor
 * restarted the xo transaction processor
 * saw that our code printed a new line of logs

## advanced exercise

Look through the code for the xo transaction processor (this lives in `code/xo/src/tp`) - we will be diving deeper into this shortly.

