---
title: Running the XO transaction processor
order: 4
---

## start xo stack

We have spun up a sawtooth stack that includes the xo-tp and xo-demo:

```bash
cd code/compose
docker-compose -f sawtooth.yaml -f xo.yaml up
```

The XO stack runs both:

 * an xo transaction processor
 * an xo demo ui

As well as the standard Sawtooth components we have already started in previous steps.

## development environment

The xo transaction processor is not currently running but is available inside a node.js environment with a volume mounted to our host, i.e. the `code/xo/src` folder is mounted into the container.

This means we can make changes to the code on our development machine and it will show up inside the container.  It also means we can restart the transaction processor easily in the (likely) case we make have any errors in our code.

This development container is hooked up to the same network as the validator meaning we can contact it using the `tcp://validator:4004` address.

This is a good way to rapidly iterate on locally developing a transaction processor - running a full sawtooth network on your laptop, changing code then restarting the validator process within the connected Docker container.

## starting the tp

In another shell window, let's get ourselves into the xo development container:

```bash
docker exec -ti sawtooth-xo bash
```

Then let's actually start the transaction processor which lives in the `src/tp/index.js` file:

```bash
node src/tp/index.js --validator tcp://validator:4004
```

> The above command uses the `--validator` flag to point the transaction processor at the validator container.  Because we are on the same Docker network - we can access the validator container using the `validator` hostname (because of Docker magic DNS entries).  The validator process listens on port `4004` and the transaction processor connects to it using a ZeroMQ socket.

Notice in the validator logs - you should see that it recognized the transaction processor starting and registering by a line in the logs like this:

```bash
sawtooth-validator | [2018-11-13 09:11:49.896 INFO     processor_handlers] registered transaction processor: connection_id=fe4d3326797a1bc090e7000968880cc4123aaa5abfdf278a6af8a2964f3d1aecbd59926d5d2f93a296e5cd7f9b4b0037833017c5e958ba494cf360a3c14b607f, family=xo, version=1.0, namespaces=['5b7349']
```

The key parts being `registered transaction processor` and `family=xo, version=1.0, namespaces=['5b7349']`

## changing code

Let's make a small change to the code and reload the transaction processor.

This demonstrates how to edit code in development and check your changes against the running validator.

Open the `code/xo/src/index.js` file in your text editor.  At the bottom of the file you will notice the section that creates the transaction processor as follows:

```javascript
// create a new transaction processor object
// this is a core object of the SDK and looks after the network connection
// to the validator using ZeroMQ sockets
const transactionProcessor = new TransactionProcessor(args.validator)

// add our XO handler to the base transactionProcessor
// this will register the XO transaction family and the version
transactionProcessor.addHandler(new XOHandler())

// override the _handleShutdown to give enough time to unregsiter the tp
// from the validator - useful in development so we can restart the process
transactionProcessor._handleShutdown = tpUtils.handleShutdown(transactionProcessor)

// start the transactionProcessor - this will initiate and register the
// transaction processor with the validator
transactionProcessor.start()
END
```

Let's add a `console.log()` line just before the `transactionProcessor.start()` that will print a message just before the transaction processor attempts to connect to the validator:

**BEFORE**

```js
// start the transactionProcessor - this will initiate and register the
// transaction processor with the validator
transactionProcessor.start()
END
```

**AFTER**

```js
// start the transactionProcessor - this will initiate and register the
// transaction processor with the validator
console.log(`connecting to validator: ${args.validator}`)
transactionProcessor.start()
END
```

This will print a message to the console before connecting to the validator.

## restarting transaction processor

We have changed the code for our transaction processor, but the old version is still running.

We will need to restart the transaction processor for our changes to be applied.

In the `sawtooth-xo` (where you typed the `node src/tp/index.js --validator tcp://validator:4004` command) - press Control+C to quit the process.

> Notice when you do this that is de-registers the transaction processor with the validator

Then - run the following command again (or press the up arrow):

```bash
node src/tp/index.js --validator tcp://validator:4004
```

You should see your log message appear on the terminal:

```bash
connecting to validator: tcp://validator:4004
Connected to tcp://validator:4004
Registration of [xo 1.0] succeeded
```

Great! We are now able to edit code on our laptop and quickly re-run the transaction processor to see the changes we made running against the validator.

## advanced exercise

Look through the code for the xo transaction processor - we will be diving deeper into this shortly.

