---
title: Running the XO UI
order: 4
---

## Let's play a game!

Now that we have a running xo transaction processor - let's play a game of XO!

We have a nice browser UI that communicates with the transaction processor.

If you are using Play with Docker - you will need to click the button at the top of your screen for port 8081:

If you are running Docker locally - open the following address in your browser: [http://localhost:8081](http://localhost:8081)

## Create a game

Click `Create` and name your game.

> Notice how when the game is created - the transaction processor will produce some logs

## Play the game

Play the game by clicking around.

> Notice how the transaction processor is printing the status of the game as you play

## Create an error

Try clicking on a space that is already taken.

> Notice how the transaction processor will reject the transaction and the message is displayed in both the logs of the transaction processor and the UI

## Play multiplayer

Let's try some multiplayer action!

First - you will need to find out the address of your XO UI container.

If you are using Play with Docker - this is the address in the browser when you clicked the `8081` button.

If you are using locally installed Docker - you will need to find out your IP address on the local network.

This is usually done by using the `ifconfig` command (if using Mac or Linux).

If the IP address is `192.168.1.91` then the URL they should enter would be `http://192.168.1.91:8081`

Try to find the IP address of your machine on the wireless network you have joined and give it to someone else.  You can share the address on the group chat.

> Notice how you cannot move if it's not your turn

## advanced exercise

Half way through a game, generate new keys using the `keys` menu and submit a new move using those keys.  Notice how the move is invalid because the player is now using a different key.